Add xperimental features and add table for how sync works (#1662)
hyperledger/besu-docs: docs/private-networks/concepts/node-sync-private.md

---
sidebar_label: Node synchronization
sidebar_position: 4
description: Learn about node synchronization for private networks.
tags:
  - private networks
---

# Node synchronization for private networks

For private, permissioned blockchain networks, Besu uses the same [synchronization 
modes](/public-networks/concepts/node-sync.md) as public networks, but with specific configurations for private network needs.

To sync Besu on a private network:

- Ensure all nodes use compatible sync modes and configurations.
- Configure the network with a custom genesis file.
- Set the network ID and bootnodes specific to your private network.
- Implement permissioning features to control network access.

:::warning Early access feature 

> `--Xsnapsync-bft-enabled` is an early access feature available since the release of Besu version 24.7.1. 
> It is not stable and is not fully supported in all versions of Besu. 
> Use this option with caution.
> 
> Use `--Xsnapsync-bft-enabled` in private, permissioned networks that use BFT consensus mechanisms.
> When enabled, this option allows Besu to use Snap sync on BFT networks. 
> Use this option in combination with the `--sync-mode=SNAP` option. 
> The default is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--Xsnapsync-bft-enabled` is an early access feature available in Besu version 24.7.1 and later.
It is not stable, so use this option with caution.

Use `--Xsnapsync-bft-enabled` with `--sync-mode=SNAP` to enable snap sync in QBFT and IBFT 2.0 private networks.
```

Suggested simplification. Same applies to the other copies of the note.

Reviewer: Also, maybe move this note after the table, above the note that recommends snap sync?

:::

Choose the appropriate sync mode based on your private network's requirements and node purposes.

> | Sync mode | Description | Requirements | Limitations |

Reviewer: Can you copyedit all the descriptions on this private network table to ensure they are the same as the public network table where applicable? I see some wording differences that can be fixed.

|-----------|-------------|--------------|-------------|

> | [Snap](../../public-networks/concepts/node-sync.md#snap-synchronization) | Recommended for fastest sync and lowest storage requirements on Mainnet. Downloads as many leaves of the trie as possible, reconstructs the trie locally. Faster than Fast sync. | Available as an _early access feature_ in Besu version 24.7.1 or later | Cannot switch from fast sync to snap sync mid-process. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Snap](../../public-networks/concepts/node-sync.md#snap-synchronization) | Recommended for fastest sync and lowest storage requirements on Mainnet. Downloads as many leaves of the trie as possible, reconstructs the trie locally. Faster than fast sync. | Available as an _early access feature_ in Besu version 24.7.1 or later | Cannot switch from fast sync to snap sync mid-process. |
```
